The **Halo 3 Editing Kit** (**H3EK**) is the official set of tools for creating custom content for the MCC version of Halo 3. It was first released by 343 Industries alongside MCC Season 8.
Similarly to the mod tools for Halo 1 and 2 it is ultimately based on the old internal tools used by Bungie during the development of Halo 3, with modifications made during the porting of the game to MCC and some changes to make them more user-friendly.

# Major changes from H2
Naturally there is multitude of changes compared to H2 as the engine underwent a major revision, this document endeavours to list the major ones.

* Tools now are all 64-bit, no more out of memory errors unless you actually run out of memory.
* The graphics and tag subsystems went through major revisions.
* Structures can no longer be created using [JMS][] files, you need to use [ASS][] files.
* Tag import info is not stored in a tag block but in a separate tag stream
* Debug logs are not saved in a single folder anymore, allowing you to run multiple tools at once without confusing logs.
* Shader tag creation was streamlined, you no longer need to select a template.
* Shader templates are autogenerated.
* Lightmap baking is usually faster.
* Multiple structure tags can be loaded at once, the basic subdivision of a scenario is now the *zone set*.
* A fancy new green loading screen.

# Known issues

* Single threaded lightmapping is not supported, you need to use the multi-process solution. This can be run with only a single client if only using one core is desired.
* Sound doesn't work in the tools. Load your map in MCC if you need to test sound.
* A main menu is not included so you will need to use `init.txt` or the developer console to load scenarios in the standalone build.
* Guerilla uses red text and greyed out folders for all tags - this doesn't mean there is something wrong with your tags it's just a graphical issue.